We are starting then from my name,
which is the most important thing here
on this page, and we have our series
of links that come after this.
So let's start styling all
of this wonderful stuff.
So let's start by setting
up our layer @ layer nav.
And so this is of course, where our
navigation styles are going to go.
And then the first thing that I
wanna do is I have here with nav,
these styles here, this is all Lato,
right our inherited style
that comes from the body.
And if we take a look at my webpage,
should have left it open,
We'll take a look at my webpage,
this font here is not lato.
This is Josefin Sans, so we're gonna have
to change our text here to match that.
So, I am just going to
use my nav element here,
right here on the page and just say nav.
And I'm going to say my
font family is what.
What comes next for my font family?
>> Var.
>> Var, yep.
And headline is the name of
that particular variable.
And I'd also like these all to be bold.
So I am going to set those up with
font-weight of 600.
Okay, and
it looks like it made it bold but
it doesn't look like
Josefin Sans got applied.
Heading, did I call it the right thing?
So everybody makes mistakes.
So I've called my variable here,
I called it headline.
And in my declaration up here on the top,
it's actually a heading.
So if you call your variable by the wrong
thing in the computer, just ignores you.
So, it happens to everybody.
You can just fix your errors as you go.
So this is heading.
Heading, there we go, that's better, okay.
Then for the ul of course with
all these to find bullets here,
we don't actually want
any of those bullets.
We can get rid of those.
So nav ul.
I'm gonna turn off the margin, margin 0.
I'm gonna turn off the padding 0.
And I'm going to say
list-style-type of none.
And so that should show all of
your links all the way to the left
edge of the page here because
we've removed the padding and
the margin and
we have removed the bullets as well, okay.
And then the next thing
we can say is nav a, for
all those individual links,
text-decoration, none.
We don't want any underlines
on our navigation items.
All right, how are people feeling so far?
Straightforward enough?
Okay, great.
What if we make this go
horizontal instead of vertical?
Wouldn't that be fun?
That would be amazing.
And what kind of technique
white we use to make this go
vertically across the page and why?
>> Flexbox.
>> Flexbox I think that's a great choice.
Why would you choose Flexbox?
>> Because you don't really need to
you do any changes to the markup?
>> A fair point.
You don't necessarily have to make
any changes to the markup but
that would actually be true for
Grid as well.
Grid uses the same kind of markup.
Flexbox is great to use when
you have a series of items
of all different widths but
the spacing between them matters, okay?
So if you think about it,
a nav bar is a perfect example of this.
We have a bunch of items that
are all different widths.
We don't actually wanna make them the same
width because then it's gonna look
weird, right?
The space in between is the most important
part here, that that is the same.
But the nav item names,
they are as long as they are.
Okay.
So to set that up then, here on our nav
ul, we are gonna apply these styles.
Because remember, Flexbox has a
relationship between parents and children.
So if the lis are individual children
here, those are going to be the actual
links that we're gonna see
going across horizontally.
We want their parent to be where we
declare flex and that would be the ul.
So we can do that here, more about
this in the Grid and Flexbox course.
So we are going to declare display flex
And we're going to say flex-flow row wrap,
okay?
So that's gonna put it in a row and
they're adding the wrap to it means that,
I don't know if I can get this window
small enough, you all can see that this is
wrapping on to another line, yeah,
instead of just scrolling off the screen.
So that's what we're doing here,
telling it to go in a row, and
we want them to wrap if it gets too long,
and then we're going to say gap of 2rem.
So that's gonna give us spacing between
our links to 2rem is about 32 pixels.
Remember that the selection space for
fingers is something like 40 pixels or
44 pixels.
So we wanna be sure to have enough
space for somebody's fat fingers
clicking through on these links in
addition to mouse people, right?
So that's probably
a reasonable separation there.
So now what we have is we have our name
and then we have a nav bar after it.
Now if you like that
layout you can keep it.
But what we are trying to do is put the
name over here on the left-hand side, and
we're trying to put the nav bar
over here on the right-hand side.
So, to set that up,
what we're going to do is take a look
again at what we have here for
our structure in our HTML.
So we have a header,
the header has two children,
the header has an h1 and
it has a nav bar that's actually perfect.
If we use Flexbox,
we can shove that name to the far left,
and we can shove the nav
bar to the far right,
using the property of
space between in Flexbox.
So let's set that up as well.
And I'm gonna put it up
here at the top after nav.
I'm going to call this just header,
display flex, flex-flow, row wrap.
And then justify-content space-between,
And assuming we get the screen big enough,
there we go.
Make sure your screen bit's
big enough you should wind up
with these two elements
next to each other.
Everybody happy?
No, I can't imagine why.
What's going on here?
Kind of wacky looking, isn't it?
Okay, so what did I tell you
to do when it looks wacky and
you're not sure what to do next?
Stick a border on it, right?
So let's stick a border on it.
Border 2px solid red.
We'll put that on the header.
That's our big header there.
Let's put one on the nav.
Border, 2px dotted blue, okay?
So there's the navigation over there.
And then let's go to our h1 and
we can say border, 2px dashed green.
Okay, so can anybody kinda
describe what's going on here?
I imagine that this is fairly
subtle at this moment in time.
So if you take a look at the h1 there,
remember the border is going to
be the divider between the padding and
the margin, right?
And we have a lot of space
between the border and
the red line which is our header.
So what is that space?
Is it padding or is it margin?
>> Margin?
>> It's margin on the h1, okay?
So all of our headings, remember,
had a bit of margin that went with them.
They also had a line height.
So something we might wanna do here
is try setting our margin to zero.
That definitely helps some.
See how we debug that.
Okay, so that got that out of there.
And then the other thing that we
might wanna do is, think about,
remember Flexbox lets us lay
things out in rows, right?
So horizontally, but Flexbox also lets
us adjust things up and down vertically.
And by default, it's displaying there
at the top of that particular line.
We would actually like this to go
down a little bit further, right?
Probably something more like a baseline.
We can align the items to the baseline,
and
we are going to do that
right here on the header.
Align-items baseline.
Okay, so
that's gonna squash things on down there.
And it'll line things up a little
bit better with what's going on with
the name, okay?
Now the alignment there is close,
it's probably not a 100%
perfect at this point in time.
I'm not gonna worry about that
particular issue right now.
And the reason why is because
the h1 is still too big,
we need to add some icons
here to this nav bar.
There's some other
changes we need to make.
So I'm not gonna worry about
a lot of fine adjustments yet.
We may iterate back to
that in a little while.